[Transcript missing]
The final thing about subtitles that's
interesting from a production point
of view is that due to their nature,
they are often added post-production.
In fact, particular programs are
actually augmented over
time with subtitle content.
Subtitle content generally is easier
to produce than alternate audio,
and so you'll often have it
localized in a much larger range
of languages and variations,
particularly in some of the really
multilingual countries in Europe.
And so we had to take all of these
different considerations into
account when we designed our subtitle
support for HTTP live streaming.
And of course, the first thing that we
needed to decide was,
in what format are we going to
ask you to author your subtitles?
And that sort of has
some key implications.
And so we looked over a
number of different formats,
and what we ended up choosing
was a relatively new,
and format that has evolved recently.
It's being,
the work there is being done under
the offices of the Media Text Tracks
Community Group at W3C.
And it's called WebVTT,
stands for Web Video Text Tracks.
And it actually, if you look at it,
it's pretty clear it has
its origins in an earlier
proprietary format called SubRip.
And so if any of you are
familiar with the .srt subtitles,
WebVTT will look immediately
very familiar to you.
From our point of view,
one of the things that was really
appealing about the WebVTT format is it
combines an extremely simple text format.
You've got these very simple
text-based files that carry Unicode,
so it's completely internationalizable.
But at the same time,
the simplicity carries a great
deal of expressibility with it in
the layout and control you have.
And so we thought it was a
really good match for HTTP,
and it's a really good match
for HTTP live streaming.
The specification is available
publicly on the W3C website,
w3.org.
And I guess the easiest way
to sort of introduce you to
WebVTT is to show you an example.
And so here we have an example
of a complete WebVTT file.
It starts,
it always starts with the text WebVTT,
so you can sniff the file,
you can find out what
you're dealing with.
And then it's kind of
like an HTTP response.
You've got the kind of the WebVTT thing,
and then you have an optional
header fields following that,
and then a double line feed,
and it takes you then
to the payload content.
The payload in WebVTT is
just a series of queues.
And queues are extremely simple things.
I've got two up here as an example.
The first thing you see is a time span,
and that indicates when the subtitle
is intended to appear on screen and
when it's intended to disappear.
And then following that,
you just have the subtitle text.
So you have two subtitles here.
The first shows up at 11 seconds in,
"Let's play a game," then it fades out,
and a couple of seconds later,
it's followed by, "You know,
I don't like games." So looking at this,
it's pretty clear that these
are really easy to author.
You could sit down with
your favorite movie,
stop watching a VI, and type, type, type,
type, type,
and you could generate a two-hour
text file of all the subtitles.
And so you can say, "Okay, well,
that's great, but I have this stream.
How do I get this stream to
play the subtitles?" And so
that's where we come in.
We look at subtitle media,
.VTT file in this case,
just like we do any other kind of media.
And so in HLS, just as we would take your
transport stream containing your
audio and your video and you break
it up into a series of segments,
you do the same thing with your
VTT file containing all your subtitles.
You break it up into a series of
segments and each segment is a
complete standalone WebVTT file.
You take all of these segments,
you throw them up on your web server,
and you give each one a URL and you
collect the URLs into a playlist file,
into an M3O8 file,
and that's your subtitle playlist.
Now, of course, HTTP live streaming,
one thing I want to point out here is
that the most common case for a subtitle
playlist is just a static playlist.
You've got your two R2 subtitles,
endless tag at the end,
playlist type VOD.
But there's nothing to prevent you
from subtitling live content as well.
And so you could have a M3O8
playlist that has four subtitle
segments and then 10 seconds later
you'll get another subtitle segment
and another subtitle segment.
And in fact, if you're subtitling a
continuous broadcast,
such as a 24-hour news station,
you'll see segments roll
off the top as well.
And so subtitles integrate
completely into the live workflow
of HTTP live streaming as well.
That's fine if all you want
to do is play subtitles,
but of course the interesting
thing is to integrate subtitles
with the rest of the presentation.
And so the mechanism for that is the
same mechanism that we introduced in
iOS 5 to carry alternate audio content.
It's the media tag and we just have,
we've reused the mechanism for subtitles.
And for those of you who may be a little
rusty or haven't used the media tag,
Let me quickly go over how that looks.
I have a diagram here and it has
four what we call variants or the
same content at different bit rates.
We've got an audio only variant.
We've got a 400 kilobit, 800 kilobit,
1500 kilobit.
And over here on the right,
we've got individual audio
playlists that have the same audio
content but in different languages.
And so these are playlists
that contain .ac files.
And with the media tag,
you can associate that set
of audio options with all the
different video bit rates.
And at runtime,
you can configure it to say, okay,
now I'd like to hear the German audio,
please.
So for subtitles,
we did the exact same thing
using the exact same syntax.
We have alongside our
group of audio alternates,
we have subtitle alternates.
So we could have English subtitles,
German subtitles.
You might have Slovakian
subtitles or Portuguese.
You might have commentary subtitles.
And using the same APIs at runtime,
you can discover these subtitles exist,
choose the ones you want to see,
and set them on the playback item
and they all start appearing.
That's a little bit abstract perhaps.
And so what I'd like to do is quickly
run through an example of actually
authoring some WebVTT subtitles
and putting them into a playlist
so you can see how that works.
So let's start with a couple
of subtitle segments here.
I've got -- I've called them
segment zero and segment one.
The first segment is the first
30 seconds of subtitle content.
Didn't have a lot of
room on the slide here,
and so there's not a lot of
subtitles in each segment,
but bear with me.
So two segments from zero to 30,
30 to 60.
What we're going to do is, you know,
save these as perhaps
as individual files,
and we're going to take them and
put them up on our web server.
And each one gets a different URL,
and then what we do is we
build our playlist around them.
And so this is an utterly
conventional playlist.
Got a target duration,
it's got a version,
it's got a sequence number,
a playlist type.
The only difference is, is that the URLs,
the URL is going to point to
.VTT files instead of .ts files.
And so once you've got this
subtitle playlist -- and again,
you can have multiple subtitle playlists
for all the different languages or types
of subtitle tracks you'd like to author.
You take the subtitle playlists
and you put them into the master
playlist and -- using media tags.
And so in this example,
that subtitle playlist we just authored
that contained the English subtitles
appears in the first media tag.
It's the subtitle group.
We've labeled it as English.
And it's got a language tag of English.
It's actually part of a group.
There's a second media tag as well,
and that's indicating that
there's another set of subtitles
that are authored in simplified
Chinese in Unicode in the text.
And it's -- I'll point out again
that when you're naming these,
you want to name them in the
native script of the language
so that the native speakers can
actually -- read them and recognize
them as being in their language.
So you do that.
You create your group of
subtitle media options.
And then in each of your variants,
in each of your different bit rates,
you have a subtitles attribute
and you just indicate the subtitle
group that defines which set of
subtitles are the appropriate set
of choices for that alternate.
So we went over that pretty quickly.
There's a couple of things I'd
like to go back and talk about
in a little bit more detail.
The first is I've kind of skipped
over this timestamp map tag you see
at the beginning of the WebVTT file.
What's that about?
Well,
the WebVTT folks quite reasonably decided
when they were building their format
that they would indicate time in sort
of the conventional format of hours,
minutes, seconds, you know,
decimal number of seconds.
And that's totally reasonable choice.
Of course, in the media space,
that's not how we indicate our --
that's not how we timestamp our content.
In HTTP live streaming,
our content is timestamped with 33-bit
MPEG transport stream PES timestamps.
And so this tag allows you to
kind of line up the WebVTT hours,
minutes, seconds timeline with the
MPEG-2 33-bit 90K based,
you know, time stamp.
So that you know what
corresponds to what.
And in this case,
we have an example here that says
that when you see 000 in WebVTT,
that corresponds to 900,000,
which is a fairly common
starting time for the beginning
of a static transport stream.
An important thing to note here
is that you don't necessarily
need to change this tag every time
you have a new WebVTT segment.
All it's doing is indicating a
synchronization point between the
two different timelines so that
we can map from one to the other,
which means that you might have
segment one or the following segment,
which covers from 30 to 60 seconds.
It might not have 0, 0, 0 in its range of
covered subtitle content,
but there's a continuous flow of time,
and so we don't have to change the tag.
The only time that you need to
update the timestamp map tag is A,
when we're going across a discontinuity
and the clocks are restarting.
So if you've got your content and
then you've got a discontinuity
on some ad content where the
MPEG timestamps are restarting and
the WebVTT content is restarting,
because you should probably be
subtitling your ads as well.
You'll have a discontinuity in
the following WebVTT segments,
you'll just want to update that
timestamp map so that we can update
our internal bookkeeping of that.
And the other place where we'd like you
to update the timestamp map tag is in the
segment following any 33-bit rollover,
because MPEG has this 90K clock,
it's ticking along at 90K per second,
and it's a 33-bit number,
eventually it rolls over.
It takes about a day,
and so a lot of you would
never even see that,
but if it does happen in your content,
following that in the next VTT segment,
We'd just like to see an update
of that so we can resynchronize.
[Transcript missing]
And that means we're going to go
back to the server every so often.
Then the subtitle target duration,
this is just totally following
the rules of the spec,
the subtitle target duration must be
the same as the target durations of the
audio and the video and whatever else.
So it means that every 10 seconds
we're going to go back to the server,
we expect to see new video,
we expect to see new audio,
we also expect to see
new target durations.
For on-demand for
static playlist content,
we actually relaxed this rule a little
bit because we recognize that in reality,
subtitle data is extremely
compact and kind of sparse.
There's not a whole lot of it.
And so asking someone to create a tiny
little file for every 10 seconds of
content didn't seem to be necessary.
And so we've relaxed the
constraint in the case of on-demand
of static playlist content.
You can have a larger target duration,
so you can have bigger
chunks of subtitle data.
We do still ask you to segment it.
We ask you to segment
it to a reasonable size.
We're suggesting anywhere
between one and five minutes.
And the reason we do this is
because for efficiency of access,
again, if we seek into the
middle of a presentation,
we don't want to have to chew through 30
minutes of subtitle data we don't need.
Before we find the one
we actually want to load.
And so your segments can be bigger
for on-demand for static content,
but they should still be reasonable.
And so those are the segmenting rules.
This is pretty much all you
need to auth your content.
As I mentioned, of course,
normally in the usual case of subtitles,
the user has to turn them on.
And so how does that work?
In the case of non-forced subtitles,
which is the standard case,
we'll talk about forced
subtitles in a second,
the set of available subtitles
appears in the asset and particularly
appears as a media selection group.
And so because assets can
be loaded asynchronously,
the first thing you need to do before
looking for your subtitles is to ensure
that the following property is available.
Asset.availableMediaCharacteristics.media
Selection.assets.
It's big and long.
Make sure that's available.
At that point, you can ask the asset for
its media selection group for
the legible characteristic.
And in HTTP live streaming,
that will get you all the subtitles.
It'll get you an entire set of subtitles.
It may get you, "I've got some English.
I've got some German.
I've got some English commentary."
It may get you an entire set.
And so the next step typically is you
want to select from amongst the set.
And you may invoke the
user's help when you do this.
You want to select amongst the set that's
available in the stream for presentation.
We have a set of powerful filtering
APIs in AV Media Selection Group.
One of the most convenient
ones perhaps is to say,
"Take the set and filter and
sort it according to my preferred
languages." And you can get the
set of preferred languages ordered
by preference from NSLocale.
And so that will give you an array.
And once you've chosen the particular
subtitle alternate you'd like to display,
you just tell the player item.
So you select this media option
from this selection group.
And at that point,
the next time we see sub C,
as we resume playback,
we will start displaying those subtitles.
So that, in a nutshell,
is what you need to do.
Let's quickly run over it.
You've got to take your text and
take your movie and subtitle it.
So VI, stopwatch, blah, blah, blah.
Got a big VTT file.
You've got to segment it into
a bunch of different chunks.
You've got to put those
chunks up on a web server,
create a playlist, a subtitle playlist
that has a list of URLs,
and then you've got to put the subtitle
playlist into your master playlist using
the media tag to indicate that it's one
of the eligible subtitles for that media.
Then, at runtime, you have to look at the
asset and you've got to say,
"Oh,
I've got English subtitles," and you've
got to tell the player I didn't play it.
At this point, you're there.
You've got 70,
80% of anything anyone would
want to know about subtitles.
Now, that was so easy and it was so fast.
I've actually got some time to
tell you about some of the other
interesting things you can do.
So let's look at that a little bit.
I mentioned forced and
non-forced subtitles earlier.
I'd like to talk about that a little bit.
The case of forced subtitles
where you're throwing up a
subtitle in front of someone even
if they haven't asked for it.
You would ask, "Well,
why would you do that?" Well,
there's a few different reasons.
Your lawyers may have told you that,
"Yeah,
we'd really like to show a localized
legal notice whenever someone watches
this particular segment of video." A more
common use for forced subtitles is that
you may have a character in your movie
or what have you who's speaking in a
language that he understands but the
audience is not expected to understand.
And so he may be speaking Swahili.
You may want to force a subtitle
to come up at the bottom that
translates what he's saying
in English for the rest of the
An interesting point about non-forced
subtitles and forced subtitles is
that we're only going to display
a single subtitle track at a time.
And the consequence of that is that
if you have a situation where you
have some forced subtitles and then
you go off and you author a set
of regular subtitles that has all
the dialogue and everything in it,
you've got to make sure to include
all the forced subtitle content in
the non-forced subtitle playlist so
that the user doesn't miss anything.
of that.
[Transcript missing]
If you author or when you
author these subtitles,
because we encourage you to,
these subtitles,
just by way of introduction,
in addition to having the
regular dialogue that people
are speaking on screen,
also include things like sound effects.
And so if in the movie a gunshot
happens off screen and it's important
for the viewer to know about it in
order to understand what's going on,
then an SDH subtitle
will come up and go bang,
you know,
and it'll indicate that there's,
what's happened to someone who's deaf.
And so if you author
these subtitle tracks,
we ask that you tag them with
these two characteristics,
public.accessibility.transcribes
spoken dialogue and
public.accessibility.describes
music and sound.
And so if you author these subtitles,
you can get details about
how you're going to use them.
And that way, if you or we,
we can look at the set of subtitles
and we can know specifically the
semantic intent of that particular set.
I'll show you an example here of this.
One of the things I wanted to
mention was that it's conventional
when doing SDH subtitles that
they're actually rendered in a
non-default position in the screen.
Normally by default we render
subtitles at the bottom of the screen.
To distinguish SDH from regular dialogue,
they're often rendered at the top.
And that actually brings
up another important point
about authoring subtitles,
which is it's often useful or necessary
to move subtitles out of the way.
We have an example screenshot
here of Phil who's talking about
some random thing or other.
And had we put that subtitle
in the default position,
it would have actually covered the text
that's burned in as part of the video.
And so we had to move it out of the way.
WebVTT gives you a pretty
good range of capabilities,
a pretty flexible set of tools
for web and web streaming.
And so we have a set of
tools for controlling the
positioning of the subtitles.
The first and most perhaps easiest to
use is you can simply put a line break
in your subtitle text and that will
be broken the same way on the screen.
Beyond that,
the queue can have a number of
positioning directives attached to it.
And in this case we have the
line directive which controls the
vertical positioning and we have
the align directive which controls,
at least in left to right text,
it tells us that we want to begin
the text at the left edge of the
screen or the display surface.
There's a whole range of these and
they give you pretty good control.
And so that's how you do that.
The next thing that's interesting
in subtitles typically is you want
to actually style your subtitles.
I mean what we have is great,
but you might want to sort
of jazz it up a little bit.
WebVTT provides a small
number of built-in styles,
bold, italic, underline essentially.
And if you've ever done
any HTML authoring,
then this will be very familiar
and very easy for you to adopt.
And you can see in our default
rendering how that looks.
We have Johnny saying he's emboldened
and he's emphasized in bold and italic.
If you want to go beyond
this limited range,
I mean, let's say you want to change this
font size or you want to make it a
different color or maybe you want
to pick a different font completely,
you can do that too.
And doing that requires a little
bit of authoring and a little
bit of programmatic control.
WebVTT actually borrowed a
bunch of the CSS class syntax,
a bunch of the class syntax from CSS.
And what this means effectively
is that you can take some of your
subtitle text and you can tag it with
what are called CSS class selectors.
And so in our example here,
the word breakthrough in Phil's
subtitle has been tagged with the
class that has a selector .huge.
So that tells us that some kind of
styling needs to be applied to that text.
What controls what it is precisely
is called a text style rule.
In a web context,
this information might come from
a CSS cascading style sheet.
In HTTP live streaming,
it's provided by you programmatically.
So a text style rule is
essentially a set of markup rules,
text markup rules,
and associated text selector.
And so in this example here,
we're creating a text style
rule that changes the relative
font size of the text.
And we've associated
with the selector.huge.
Once we've set up our styles,
we set it on the player item,
the text style rule's property.
And from that point on, during playback,
those styles will be applied to any
text which has that text selector.
One of the more widely used
kind of styling that happens in
subtitles is per-voice styling.
This is fairly common in situations
where you have multiple characters
and they're talking at once and it
can be -- in order to help the viewer
keep straight who's saying what,
you'd like to actually tag each
voice with a particular style.
And so WebVTT provided a
special syntax for this,
which is V space voice name.
And so you can tag all the comments by
-- from one character with one voice
and all the comments from a different
character with a different voice.
And then, again, programmatically,
you can set the style
for that voice selector.
And in this case,
what I've done is I've said
that Johnny should be light
blue and Phil should be red.
And so you can see the result
here at the bottom of the screen.
Johnny says so capable.
Phil says the iPhone was a revolution.
The last thing I'd like to talk about
when it comes to WebVTT styling is
kind of a fun little thing where
you can actually animate the styles.
And how this is implemented is
that you can see here we have
an example queue that says,
"My heart cries for
you." It's five words,
five seconds long.
But it actually has timestamps
interspersed throughout the queue itself.
And what this has effectively
done is it has divided the queue
into a series of five time ranges.
That means that while the queue
is up for that five seconds,
the rendering system knows that,
let's say, in a time between 12
seconds and 13 seconds,
that the first two words are in the past
and the last two words are in the future.
WebVTT defines special
styles for past and future,
and so you can set up
a special appearance.
And if you do this and you have
this kind of animated text,
as we render the text,
as a part of the queue
moves into the past,
it will be given the past style,
and as while it's in the future,
it will be given the future style.
I don't have a good screenshot for this.
The easiest way is actually
to demo it for you.
And so what I'd like to do
now is bring up Bill May,
who implemented a bunch of this subtitle
stuff to help me show you subtitles
in WebVTT and HTTP live streaming.
So if we could switch to the demo iPad.
So what I'd like to show you first
is just some regular subtitles.
We have our favorite clip
of Phil and John here,
so let's run that guy.
You know, it's true.
When something exceeds your
ability to understand how it works,
it sort of becomes magical.
So Johnny is speaking in English.
Subtitles in English.
Kind of shows the point,
but not as exciting.
As I said, however, though,
you can have multiple subtitles
associated with a particular stream.
And so I'm going to ask Bill to
pop up the options box here.
You can see in our case that we've
rendered two sets of subtitles,
one's in English and one's in Chinese.
So let's choose the Chinese version.
and kind of caught Phil at
a bad moment there.
Come on, Phil, you can do it.
So many amazing technologies,
all the applications,
the multi-touch user interface.
Okay, but anyway, now Phil,
speaking in English, subtitle in Chinese.
I think it makes Phil look
more sophisticated.
I don't know.
It's just me.
So those are sort of our simple
default rendering subtitles.
What I'd like to do now
is show you another clip,
and this clip has some kid soccer,
and what makes it interesting is that
in addition to sort of regular dialogue,
it also has some sounds
and some music in it.
And so let's see how that can look.
So let's start playing it.
And what you can see here is if you
look at the bottom of the screen,
you see what the kids are saying,
and if you look at the top of the screen,
there is some SDH dialogue,
like kids cheering or what have you.
Now, what I mentioned before was that in
addition to placing the SDH subtitles,
the sound effects,
at the top of the screen,
it's also pretty conventional
to give them a different style,
again, so they can stand out a little
bit more from the regular dialogue
and so Bill can take a look
at the text style rules there,
and you can see that we've
got the default style rules,
we've also got the fancy rules.
So let's choose fancy and
play a little bit more.
And now what you'll see is that when we
have some of the sound effects coming up,
like the kids laughing,
then that actually has
dynamically changed from being
white to default to yellow.
So let's go again.
[Transcript missing]
So, let's talk about some additional
stuff that we have for you in iOS 6.
The first thing I want to mention
is that you remember last year
when we were talking about iOS 5,
we introduced fast forward and rewind
playback using iframe playlists.
We didn't quite get to the point in sort
of the mad stampede to get iOS 5 shipped.
We didn't hook that up in
MPMoviePlayerController.
So people who are using
MPMoviePlayerController and want to play
their content were kind of left out.
So we've gone and we've
redressed that in iOS 6.
So now you can see here using
MPMoviePlayerController,
you can go into fast forward
mode and then go back into
your normal playback mode.
And so all you need is an iframe
playlist and now it's there for you now.
The next thing I'd like to talk about
is actually kind of a favorite of mine.
And this is glitch-free switching
between different audio encodings.
You might remember that ever since
the beginning of HTTP live streaming,
we've always told you, you can have your
variable bit rate video,
right?
You can have your video at your 12
different bit rates or whatever.
But you should keep the same
audio encoding across all the
different bit rates of video.
And the reason we told you this, frankly,
is because it's just hard.
It's just difficult to transition
from one audio encoding to
a different audio encoding.
During playback,
without producing something audible,
without producing a glitch or
a pop or a gap in the audio.
And we don't want our content to
look like that or to sound like that.
And we didn't want to inflict
that on any of you either.
So, fair enough.
But, of course, we're
The implication of this,
and someone reminded me of
this in the lab just yesterday,
was that, okay, I'm an app developer.
I want my app approved over 3G.
So Apple's telling me that I need
a 64 kilobit audio only stream,
not necessarily only,
but a 64 kilobit stream to meet
the 3G approval requirements.
So my audio can't be any
higher than 64 kilobits.
Okay, that's fine.
But I also have a 5 megabit 720p stream,
gorgeous video.
You're telling me that I've got
to use the same not so great 64
kilobit audio in my beautiful,
gorgeous 720p video?
And so the wailing of the
gnashing of teeth and et cetera,
et cetera.
So, I'm
We went back and we looked at
this in iOS 6 and it is difficult.
It is tricky, but it's not impossible.
We went in,
we fixed a bunch of edge cases,
we sat down with our audio guys,
we put our heads together,
and we made it work.
You do have to have timestamps
that are perfectly in sync between
your different audio encodings
for this to work perfectly,
including getting the right timestamps on
the priming packets if you're using AAC.
But if you do, it sounds, muah,
it's great.
And I'm gonna actually
play a little bit for you.
So let's start with,
we pulled out some audio here.
We encoded a fairly high bit rate.
So fairly good quality audio encoding.
And then we took the same audio clip and
we just compressed the heck out of it.
And so I'm going to play it for you now.
Actually doesn't sound that bad.
And it's not, really,
for given how much it's been compressed.
But what's hard to tell,
unless you're doing a
side-to-side comparison,
is that a consequence of that
compression is that all the high
frequencies have been cut off.
And this is actually really
important because this is a fugue
and there's some interesting stuff
going on in those high registers.
And so what I'm going to show you
next is a transition that we actually
recorded yesterday of the stream player
switching up from that low quality I just
played from you to the high quality.
And if you listen carefully,
you can hear where it switches
and it's just like suddenly all
the high frequencies come back.
And so let's listen.
Didn't quite get it.
It sounded pretty good, doesn't it?
Let's listen to it once more.
I heard it,
but I've heard this clip like,
I don't know, 30 times before.
But that was a switch.
It happened about halfway through,
and we went from the low
quality to the high quality.
If you come by in the lab
later with a set of headphones,
I can actually play it for you.
But the important takeaway
was that it sounded perfect.
There was no audible gap
or discontinuity there.
We just seamlessly transitioned
from one audio to the other.
And so we're hoping that this
gives you more flexibility
when you author your streams.
Next is another audio feature,
and that's AC3.
AC3 is also known as Dolby Digital's
5.1 multi-channel surround sound.
And we don't do a lot of surround
sound on iPhones and iPads because,
you know,
when you take 5.1 multi-channel sound,
you decode it,
then you remix it into mono and
you put it out the back speaker,
you're kind of losing some
of the richness there.
That changes, however,
if said device is hooked up
to an actual audio system
that has a 5.1 speaker setup.
It can make the experience
much more rich in that case.
And so there's a couple of
different ways that can happen,
of course.
One is you can go buy our $50 little
HDMI connector and you can plug
it in and hook it up to your audio
receiver or your TV with 5.1 surround.
Another way,
which is probably more common,
is your content can be airplayed
to an Apple TV that's connected
to someone's home theater system.
And in that case,
it would be really nice to provide
them with 5.1 multi-channel surround.
So you can do that.
Having said it, you don't know ahead of
time whether said device,
said user has his 5.1
system set up and turned on,
what have you.
And so if you're going to provide AC3,
you need to still provide the
same content also encoded for AC3.
So that way,
if we're hooked up to a 5.1 system,
we're going to be able to do that.
If we're hooked up to a 5.1 system,
we'll detect it and we'll
automatically choose your AC3.
If not, we'll choose the AC and
we'll play as we always have.
This selection is made once when
you start playing back your item.
And it really is a once --
it's an all or nothing deal.
And that means that if we choose AC3,
we're only going to switch
between the AC3 variants.
We're not going to switch back
and forth between AC3 and AC.
All your content must be
AC3 within that variant,
which means your main content
and your ads both have to be AC3.
The reason for this is because the
process of switching between PCM output
and AC3 on today's hardware is ugly.
It takes like three to
five seconds to happen.
It is often accompanied by some
ugly and disturbing clunks and
clonks from your audio equipment.
And so we're not going
to switch back and forth.
You can provide AC3, but if you do,
all or nothing,
you've got to have AC3 for all your
different bit rates or all the ones
you choose to expose for AC3 and
all the content within that variant.
How you do it is you simply add
another variant to your playlist file.
You indicate in the codex attribute
that it's AC3 and that tells us,
ah, this stream has AC3.
I should go check to see if
we're connected to AC3 and
throw that switch if so.
For the simplicity here,
these two variants have just been,
I've taken, the video is,
I've muxed in AC3 in one instance,
I've muxed in AAC in the other instance.
You can do it that way.
That's the easiest way to do it.
You can also take your AAC and put
it into an audio only playlist,
take your AC3,
put it into a separate audio only
playlist and use the media tag so you
don't have to duplicate your video.
That's probably the more
efficient way to go.
But those are how you put
things together to get AAC.
And for premium content,
I know that there is a fair amount of
demand amongst the more discriminating
users for this and so we hope that
this will help you satisfy that demand.
In terms of other tweaks
that we've done for iOS 6,
we spent some time working
on our algorithms that decide
when to switch bit rates.
And specifically we had two focus areas.
The first was how we switch up
and where we decide to switch up.
And the focus of that was to detect
when the network connection has
a relatively stable bandwidth,
which is to say the bandwidth
the network is delivering is not
fluctuating crazily like this.
If it's more steady, if it's more stable,
then we will actually choose
a bit rate that is higher,
closer to that theoretical
ceiling of what the network can
deliver than we would previously
in earlier versions of iOS.
We call this reducing
the bandwidth cushion.
Correspondingly,
if you're on a very kind of highly
fluctuating network and you're on
a very highly fluctuating network,
and then sort of 3G comes to mind,
we may not switch up
quite as optimistically,
because we're going to be a little bit
more conservative because we realize
that the network is incredibly variable.
And even though it might be fast now,
it might not be fast
two seconds from now.
And if we decide to switch up,
then we might subsequently stall.
That actually takes us into
the second area of focus,
which was the switch down algorithm.
And what we focused on there was
to try to identify points at which
bandwidth is dropping rapidly,
more quickly than we have previously,
and switch to a lower bit rate so
that we actually transition to a
lower quality prior to the stall,
and we don't stall as a consequence.
And so both of these are not
really -- they're not really
exposed to you as developers.
We do expect you to see, in general,
better switching behavior in iOS 6.
So we'd like you,
when you install the seed,
you test your apps,
you test your streams,
to be kind of on the lookout for this.
In general,
it should sort of be a little bit
faster than we have previously,
and we're not going
to be able to do that.
So we're hoping that this
will lead to better quality
for users and fewer stalls.
Of course, at some point,
you're always going to stall, right?
There's some circumstances where
you're just going to stall.
The network just can't keep up
with what you're trying to deliver.
And so we've added a new
API in iOS 6 as well,
and this is an explicit notification
of playback data starvation.
The reason we added this was
because we had some folks who
were trying to do some quality of
service monitoring on their streams,
and they wanted to know
when stalls occurred.
The problem is that on iOS 5,
what a stall looks like to someone who's
watching playback happen through their
AV player item is that the player item
transitions from the playing state into
the buffering state for a little bit,
then it transitions back
into the playing state.
The problem is that that transition,
that a data starvation stall
is not the only thing that
can trigger that transition.
We will go through that
transition when you seek.
We'll go through that transition when you
choose a different subtitle alternate.
And there's a few other things that cause
us to go through that transition as well.
They're not strictly about, "Oh,
I couldn't keep up because the
network was too slow." And so
to help disambiguate that,
we have a new notification that is
sent explicitly when we had to pause
playback and rebuffer because the
network just wasn't fast enough.
Possibly we had to switch
down at the same time.
Speaking of quality
of service monitoring,
we do encourage you to do so.
We do encourage you to look at
the quality of service you're
getting on your client devices and
validate your assumptions that your
set of bit rates and everything
else is what you're expecting.
And when you do this,
the access log and the
error log are your friends.
If you haven't looked at the
access log and the error log,
they were introduced in
iOS 5 or 4.2 or something.
And the access log is every
now and then through playback,
we log some interesting
events like when we switch bit
rates or when we see a stall,
a few other different things.
And so it's kind of a ticker tape of what
happened during the -- during playback.
When we run into hard errors like
when we get HTTP 404s on various
parts of the -- on the playlist
or various parts of the playlist,
those are put into the error log.
So the access log and the error
log are even better in iOS 6.
We've added some new fields to the
access log including the playback type,
whether you're live, VOD, et cetera.
We've added a lot more information
about the bandwidth we're
observing from the network,
so the min, the max, standard deviation,
and also what we saw at the point
where we decided we wanted to switch.
And then we've also added some things
you can kind of keep an eye out for.
For instance,
we have the number of segments
that actually took longer
to download than real time.
We had a 10-second segment,
took us 12 seconds to download.
It's always a red flag.
And the number of segments that
we downloaded over cellular,
which can be interesting,
particularly in these -- this
day and age of metered billing.
And additionally,
we've enhanced what we put into the error
log so there's more detail there now.
If you're getting any
kind of playback error,
particularly unexplained playback error,
the error log is the first place
you should go and it may help
you understand why things failed.
Speaking of the access
log and the error log,
you no longer have to pull the
logs or use your special ESP powers
to figure out when we've added
something new to those logs.
In iOS 6,
we now have notifications you can listen
to and we will fire those notifications
whenever a new entry is added to the log.
And so you can keep an eye on those.
[Transcript missing]
Next, new API.
This API is around making your
life easier when you're providing
content for application defined URLs.
And for those whom this is a new thing,
let me briefly explain.
When you tell us to play a playlist
file or go get an encryption
key or something like that,
those are specified as URLs.
And in the normal course of affairs,
those are HTTP colon slash URL.
And we go off and we load
them from network and we get
the information that way.
HTTPS often in the case
of encryption keys.
But you have an alternative.
And that is you can make
up your own URL scheme,
you know, ABC colon slash slash.
And you can give that to us
and say my playlist is at
ABC colon slash slash playlist.
Or what have you.
And if you do that,
that tells us we have to go back
and ask you for what the content is.
Roger Pantoos There's a couple
of good reasons to do this.
For playlist files,
this gives you the ability to
customize your playlist files.
For instance,
if you wanted to specify some ad
content that was dynamically identified,
you wanted to sort of
pick your ads at run time.
Roger Pantoos And for encryption keys,
often you've already built a secure
pipeline for delivering the encryption
keys from the cloud down to your client.
And rather than have been then set up
an entirely new server infrastructure
to sort of field our HTTPS requests,
you may want to smuggle it down to
your application sideband and simply
hand it over to us when we need it.
And so when you do that,
you can specify your keys
using your custom URLs.
The problem is in iOS 5,
in order to get this to work,
you had to implement a global,
what's called an NSURL protocol.
And it was global,
so the state was divorced from all your
different objects in your application.
And it was a little complicated and
it was a little tricky to get right.
So in iOS 6, we've introduced a new API.
There's a new object called
an asset resource loader.
And an asset has one of these things.
And this object mediates the access
to these kind of problematical URLs.
And so what you can do is you can set,
your application can set
a delegate on this object,
on the resource loader.
And when it does,
when it comes time for us to load
one of these URLs we don't recognize,
we will package that up in a request
that includes the URL and the byte range,
if we're asking for a byte range.
And we'll say, hey delegate,
this resource loader needs to load a URL.
Should we wait for you to load it?
Load us for it.
Load it for us.
So what you should do is you
should look at a request,
look at the URL and see if it's your
ABC colon slash slash that you've
decided you want to load for us.
If it is, you should return yes.
At that point, we will sit back,
we will twiddle our thumbs and you
go off and you rummage around and you
come up with the content for that URL.
Once you've got it,
you just tell the resource loader,
here it is, you can finish your loading,
I've got this response.
And then we'll go off on our merry
way and we'll continue playing.
So,
This is an extremely
straightforward process.
It's much easier in NSURL protocol.
You can tie it in to the rest
of your object framework.
We hope this makes it easier to supply
your own content to us dynamically,
your own playlists and keys dynamically,
and maybe it'll help you clean up
your code a little bit as well.
The last thing I want to talk about
today was sample level stream encryption.
What we're doing here is we're
giving you an alternative
way to encrypt your content.
As you know, since the beginning,
we've had a provision
for encrypting content,
and it was simply once
you've got all your segments,
you take each segment file and
you just encrypt the entire thing.
And this has the benefit of simplicity.
It's extremely easy to author,
and we do like it.
But it has some downsides as well.
One of the downsides is that
everything gets encrypted.
All the structural
information in the file,
all the padding,
of which in TS there can be a lot,
and that means we have
to decrypt everything.
Even though you don't have to decrypt
everything to protect your content,
you only have to protect the samples.
And so the fact that we have
to decrypt all this extra stuff
on the device means more CPU,
which means worse battery.
It's not an ideal situation.
The other thing about just going
off and encrypting everything is you
want your files to remain in their
encrypted state as much as possible.
That's the most secure thing.
And so you don't want to
have to decrypt your files.
But while they're in
this encrypted state,
when the entire file is encrypted,
any tools that you may be running
that do things like segmentation or
validation or anything like that,
those files are totally opaque
in their encrypted state.
And so to do anything with them,
you have to decrypt them first.
And so that's not an ideal thing either.
So we're providing a new
alternative in iOS 6.
And what we've done is we've defined
a format where only the elementary
audio and video streams are encrypted.
And that's basically media
engineer talk for just the samples.
And so we just encrypt the samples
and then they're packetized and
they're put into your standard .ts
files and AAC files in a regular way.
And you end up with what looks pretty
much like a vanilla transport stream
or a vanilla MPEG audio stream,
audio elementary stream.
The difference, of course,
is if you look at the samples,
they look like, you know,
they look like random crap.
And so to help you not
get into trouble there,
we have defined new stream
types for the encrypted variants
in the transport streams.
And, of course,
when the samples are encrypted,
you can no longer sniff the
samples to detect what kind
of codec you're going to need.
And so we've also made a provision
for carrying the codec information for
the audio setup in a new descriptor.
So that's carried into clear.
So you can just take a look
at that and you'll know,
you know, and you can tell that
you'll need 128 kilobit AAC,
44.1, what have you.
To indicate to us that your
files are in this new format,
you just have to use the new method
value that we'd find in the key tag.
It's sample-aes instead
of the old aes128.
Of course, to use it,
you need to be able to author them.
And so we will be providing you
with the format details of this.
We'll do it eventually, of course,
in a spec update of the internet draft.
If you are authoring,
if you're responsible for an authoring
tool yourself and you'd like to
know about the format earlier,
contact us offline and we'll get
you set up with format details
ahead of the public release so
you can get a head start on that.
So that's it for iOS 6
for HTTP live streaming.
What I like to say in summary
is now we've got subtitles.
They're really easy to add.
They're really easy to author.
Go off, check them out.
Come to us.
Give us your feedback if you
have any on those subtitles.
We have made significant
changes to the player engine.
We've made some improvements.
We've made some additions to the API.
So install the seed, test your apps,
test your streams.
Let us know if you see problems
and we'll see what we can do about
addressing them before iOS 6 ships.
And finally, if your app does AirPlay,
then all of these changes and
improvements have been carried
over to Apple TV as well.
If your app does AirPlay,
go off and buy an Apple TV.
They're $99.
Install a WWDC seed on it.
Test out AirPlay.
It should work better.
We'd like to know if it doesn't.
I'm hoping that I've given you
more than enough information,
more than you could
ever want in this talk,
of course.
There's a possibility I haven't.
And so if not,
the first place you should look
is our fantastic resources page on
developer.apple.com/resources/http-stream
ing.
That has specification information.
It has sample codes.
It has best practices, tech notes,
videos, et cetera, et cetera.
Check that out.
It will probably answer your question.
I've got the WebVTT link
on here one more time.
Eric Verschen is our evangelist.
He loves answering our questions.
But Eric also hangs
out on the ADC forums,
and so do a lot of other smart people.
And if you have a problem,
there's a good chance someone
else has also had that problem.
In fact,
they might already have the answer.
So take a look at the forums.
Search for your problem.
If you can't find it, post a question.
There are smart people on the
forums who can help you answer it.
I mentioned Eric's talk.
That was yesterday.
So if you haven't seen it,
I urge you to take a look at it in replay
once we have those sessions come up.
Again, thank you very much.